I think that will be clear to everyone.
But the truth is that we are here because of some very serious charges made by the principals to this conqueror.
Let someone think that these original charges were not light.
Let me refer her for the record now.
Very briefly, some of the serious charges that have been made on both sides of this conqueror.
These are the charges that were made on the basis of which the subcommittee decided to employ special consult and hold open hearings to investigate their truth or arrest.
Originally, there was a charge of by the Army in its chronological report that the subcommittee on investigations was being used by Mr. Roy Cole and to a lesser extent Senator McCarthy to gain preferential treatment in the Army for a former employee, G. David Shaw.
There were contained in this primary report allegations that Roy Cole stated that he would wreck the Army and fall Secretary Stevens to be true as Secretary of the Army unless G. David Shaw were given the assignments to which he thought he was entitled.
As the subcommittee with Roy Cole as Chief Council was then in the midst of a vigorous investigation of a letter as subversive in the Department of the Army, this was fairly no empty threat.
Senator McCarthy, Roy Cole and Frank Cole.
There were upon charge that Secretary Stevens and John Adams had attempted to blunt mail them into stopping their investigation of the Army.
Senator McCarthy is quoted in an 18 story on March 13, 1954, I quote.
Adams, while he didn't say so in so many words, warned me McCarthy that unless the investigation of the Communists in the Army was discontinued, we would be embarrassed by a report that was being prepared.
No investigation will be ended because of threats of blackmail and the fall.
I invite to your attention the fact that blackmail is a felony, punishable with a punitive sensory sentence.
Roy Cole stated in speaking about their report and I quote, this is the Army report, this is his quotation.
It is an unprecedented thing obviously leaked out by the Army as they have failed at fire blackmail attempt.
It was also claimed by Mr. Roy Cole that the Army was holding G. David Shine as a hostage in order to force the subcommittee to terminate their investigations into the Army.
It was a less by Senator McCarthy and Mr. Roy Cole, that the Secretary of the Army Robert Stevens and John Adams attempted to divert the investigation of the subcommittee into the Army to an investigation of the Air Force and the Army.
They claim that Mr. Stevens and Mr. Adams offered to turn over the rocket for information on these other services if the subcommittee would fall off the investigation of the Army.
Specifically Mr. Roy Cole that stated that John Adams offered to give him the name of an Air Force faith where there were a group of homosexuals in return for Mr. Roy Cole's promise that the subcommittee would not prevent.
Further pursuant investigation of the Army.
In addition to these most serious charges and counter charges, there were the basis for which the subcommittee decided to hold open hearings and investigate.
There have been most serious statements made since that time in connection with the hearings.
If the investigation is terminated now, there will be many questions of truth and bureaucracy completely under assault.
I only hope Mr. Chairman that every effort will be continued to be made as the members of this committee are trying to do to find a way to speed the testimony that must be brought before the committee.
Let us never forget that to expedite this hearing to speed the testimony does not mean the elimination of testimony that was deemed so material as the outset that we found it necessary unanimously to undertake this investigation.
Now we have heard that we are facing a much difficult problem and the problem of the firm is prolonged hearing in the time when the appeal is in the department of the Army and the members of this subcommittee has far more important business to track.
I think that it is the overwhelming element of the American people that everything possible should be done to permanent be hearing just as clinically as possible.
Mr. Chairman, Mr. Jenkins, as counsel for this committee, I feel impelled at this time to make a statement.
Yesterday afternoon at 5 o'clock, this committee held an executive session.
The members of the committee have revealed that some extent at least were transpired at that session and I therefore feel it is liberty to now likewise do so.
In that session I was called upon to make a statement and in substance and to the best of my recollection I stated this that initially I was employed by seven United States senators comprising this subcommittee.
That I had that time, I did not look upon the members of this committee as being either Democrats or the public.
That I regarded them as the Loyal Patriotic America.
I stated, and I stated now publicly that nothing has been said, nothing has transpired to change my opinion of a single member of this committee which I am trying to serve to the best of my ability.
Mr. Welch was present at the time. He made his statement.
It does not lie within my province to interpret the words of Mr. Welch. They are transcribed.
I might say in reference to their truth that the moving hand has ripped and having ripped moves on.
It is the pre-logative exclusively of this committee to interpret what was said.
I further said to this committee that I felt it my duty to inform the committee of a fact of which it was then well aware of which it is well aware this morning.
That is the messages that are being received in my office, by myself and by myself.
Messages from people in high places in the government, messages from people in less important places, but people who to my mind are equally great.
And who equally reflects the sentiment of the American public indicates that the public is greatly disturbed over the results, the effects these open gains are producing upon the mind of the people.
The undercurrents of the emotionalism of the people are so swift and so strong as to in my mind.
In many instances, almost the throne reason from its citadel.
I told the committee that the committee is well aware of that.
I reminded the committee that in no sense did I make any recommendation or did I intend to say anything from which the committee might infer.
My opinion is the whether or not the investigation should be discontinued, should be curtailed or should be continued.
My new plea and detail to its bitter end.
That is exclusively the province of the committee which I serve.
I have further stated that that time and I state now to the committee into all of the Americans.
That if the committee decides to curtail this year, to discontinue it, to cut it short, I graciously bow to the will of the committee for which I am working.
But I made it clear that in an eye desire to make it equally clear and empathic now that if the committee decides in its wisdom that this case must be presented in all of its details, regardless of the consequences, regardless of the time that will be consumed, I am the faithful members of my staff will be here.
As this thing in our own way, in the exposition of the facts as long as there is breath in our body.
Anybody else that wants to be heard before we turn to the 10 minute rule and the audio questioning?
Very great.
As this file is a vast list of individuals coming and working in the 10th plant with a razor blade if you please, poised over the jugular vein of this nation.
We have individuals in the Army, six of them when we ordered call the day before this report was issued.
The reason why I was willing to consent to this abbreviated procedure was because suggested by Mr. Welch incidentally was because I felt that we had vastly more important work to do.
As far as I am concerned, I am still willing to abide by the agreement which we made last night.
Mr. Welch wants to welcome that perfectly alright.
I think that this, I think something has been accomplished with the chairman.
Even though we do continue for weeks and months with this hearing, I think something has been accomplished.
It now appears very clear who wants to prolong the hearings, who wants to drag them out.
May I say, Mr. Chairman, that I am not too impressed by some of my colleagues here who tell how they want to shorten the hearings by passing, by passing when the releases of the case are up, by taking hours of our time days, if you please, and we're talking about some young man's boots or some photographs.
I'm not impressed by it at all.
Anybody else that wants to be heard before we resume on the 10 Minervals?
If not, may the chair say that there is this happy note that can be added that our meeting yesterday was all conducted in a friendly spirit.
This chair did not have to sound the gavel a single time, the gaveled around the table to explore the possibilities through arbitration, finding immediately satisfactory formula for shortening the hearings.
It is now apparent certainly to the public as it should be that that formula was not arrived there.
There is one other happy note.
Not one single charge has come from any of the parties to this dispute.
Not one single criticism from any of the parties to this dispute for their council.
That the committee or its council has at any time been unfair or manifest any prejudice.
I want to say on behalf of our committees that we're happy that that situation has prevented.
It may well be that the wheels of the gavels grind slowly, but they grind exceedingly fine.
Time is important.
The truth is much more important.
We're going to continue to search for the truth by all of the tactics and capacities that we have.
We will ask that the council continue to consult together.
If they can find some fair and equitable manner for expediting the hearings,
they will not continue with the rules and the procedures and the plans and the policies with which you began.
I just make it clear now on the chair of the council of the council.
Before I have concerned, I will only consult Mr. Welch and his under oath.
I will not consult with a man who makes an agreement right to the far-time concern.
With bad faith, he made a suggestion.
I extended myself to accept that.
I would like to know on this term that I think you should consider him not making a request.
I think you should consider whether or not Mr. Welch should not be put under oath and have the committee find a hot pattern.
Between the time that he said that he was willing to shorten these proceedings and this morning when he changed his mind,
as I cannot make any request, Mr. Chairman, but I wish you would give that some thought.
The chair will suggest that we now continue with the order of the day.
Mr. Welch, how does factory to meet their evacuation of bad faith on my part?
There are three, six, eight people at the head table, where a door table who knows what went on.
The allegation or the suggestion of bad faith on the part of Welch is false, and it is known to you,
gentlemen, that the other side of the table to be false.
And neither the chairman or the council should add his word to mind on this point.
The chair has no intention whatsoever of following the suggestion to put the people who have the executive station under oath,
rather than chairman anything further than we have been able to discuss among ourselves here in public,
where everybody has had his chance to say what he wanted to say on his own responsibility,
with no rules of relevancy, no rules of time termination, no rules of procedure applied.
Mr. Stevens is back on the stand, who is back with council jenkins if he has any questions.
Chairman, I have no further questions.
The chair has none. Senator McClellan.
Chairman, I can move to the table.
The chair has no final thought on the yesterday.
Got a suggestion?
I'll assume.
He's not in my car, but he questioned me yesterday with respect to two letters that he has written made
during the month of March, in regard to the report of the Inspector General connection with the correct case.
I told him on that I thought that I had acknowledged those letters,
and I wasn't sure about it.
I'd like the opportunity to check up and make sure that I have in front of me here a copy of a letter
which I wrote starting to heart things on 13th of April, just a brief letter of New York permission I'll read it to you.
And maybe, Chairman, the chair, this is a reply to your recent correspondence regarding the case of major progress.
As you may have been critically advised, this case is under investigation by the Inspector General of the Army.
The investigation has not yet been completed, however,
according to present expectations, it will be completed this month.
As soon thereafter as practical, we will notify you and be prepared to identify it to the Parliament of the Committee on investigation,
failure as Robert II Stephen's Secretary of the Army.
But here's a few other important ones.
The other was a letter, the date of my letter, the date of the date of the date of the date of the date of the date of the date of March 30th.
The why are the records well? The Secretary of the Army is under the records.
I'm sorry, Secretary, it's a reply to your report.
Yes, I'm okay.
The chair will receive all of the letters and evidence marked serially so that they can be identified as a very accurate student.
The second pass under the funder.
They'll remember this.
And is it my right to write a irrigate at my left hand?
I'll do it.
If you will.
Pass.
Under the McCarthy or Mr. Coen.
Coen.
On this Secretary overnight, if you check your file, there is no matter of the oil depot, if you now call it,
whether or not there is any provision of law which gives immunity from services subpoenaed to members of oil depots, which is a clear sign.
Remember.
Could I answer any of your questions?
I believe it's an answer you may suggest to the Secretary.
He's left the information.
You're not a no-second Secretary yet.
Mr. Coen.
I said that we would prepare a memorandum, particularly as we could.
That memorandum is in process of preparation.
I hope to be able to submit it to the Secretary of the Court today, who would be working very hard on it, late last night and during the day.
Now, sir, in other words, you're preparing that memorandum and you can't tell us now whether or not you know of any provision of law which gives immunity to members of a loyal people from service of process of disobedience.
That's all I wanted to know.
I wondered if you could answer that one until we could move on.
I think I better wait until I have the memorandum so I can speak that simply very well.
I'm not being a lawyer.
Mr. Stevens, I might ask you this.
Do you not know if you must apply to the fact that members of loyal people or the others of the departments have responded to the disobedience by this committee, have appeared before the committee and have given full testimony in response to questions by this committee?
I'm not going to let you know that now.
When you're not applied by Senator Monsroud, being there in September and on other occasions, I refer in September to a meeting at the Calam Hotel, I believe on September 8th, and on other occasions, that members of the loyal people of the government printing office had appeared freely voluntarily before the subcommittee and had given full testimony with no objection from anyone.
I remember there was some discussion about the government printing office.
Yes, and he recalled some discussion about the loyalty board of the government printing office in September.
No, I recall that there was a sentiment cloud to the indicators of the government printing office, specials that made a very favorable impression in their appearances, but I don't recall that it's oily forward part of it.
You do not recall that file I don't.
But I might suggest that if I may, that you're counseled in the course of their legal research, might examine the records of our committee to see that members of the loyal people have never before refused to appear before the subcommittee and give testimony.
I could for August of 1953, containing testimony by members of the loyalty board of the government printing office.
And Mr. Chairman, I'll leave this particular line of interrogation until such time as Mrs. Stevens said the opportunity to look at this memorandum.
Very well, we can go on from there.
Mr. Secretary, is it not the fact that from the day you went into office, the Secretary of the Army until the day you made it went into the Fourth Amendment situation, no action had been taken against a large number of security risks.
Mr. Turningbull, the FBI has submitted numerous reports to your office.
Oh, I'm saying that it's been a lot of investigating an action going on in conjunction with the FBI.
Sir, your office received reports from the FBI, I assume, like every other government agency, containing the regulatory information indicating certain of your employees are communists or have engaged in communist activities.
Yes, right. You know that? We received FBI reports, yes, sir.
Now, would you agree with me further that the Fourth Amendment radar laboratories in the subsidiaries are among the most sensitive spots in this nation?
Yes.
Would you further agree with me, sir, that a large number of members of the Julius Rosenberg firing were employed in the 1940s at the radar laboratories at Fourth Amendment.
You know that to be a fact for you, not sir.
I've been told that there were some there in the 1940s. I don't know it at my own certain knowledge, of course my concern was it has been in office.
Well, you know, sir, that there has been public testimony and documentation supplied by your office to us indicating that the master Adam Spie, Julius Rosenberg himself was working.
I must say that in its midst of only relative to the conditions prevailing at Fourth Amendment in 1940s, only irrelevant and to use their project.
May I address myself in Council on that?
I'm in the Jenkins. I think it's very relevant to show this background and lean into the fact that the sociators of Julius Rosenberg were still working at the radar laboratory when Mr. Stevens with Secretary in that no action was taken against them.
I would have been a little heartily agrees with you, but in one of you will confirm your question to whether or not such subversives were employed in Port Monmouth, but Mr. Stevens took office.
I'll hold it in person to come.
Very well, sir, and I'm trying to lay the foundation for that.
Mr. Stevens, if you have question, you have a question. These moves that affect, so that there will no other job.
All right, sir, I will. It might be a long question, Mr. Chairman, but I'll try to embrace the full set of facts in one question.
Mr. Stevens, this will necessarily be a long question for you and you at the end would break it down if you feel it's necessary.
Mr. Stevens, is it not a fact that a majority of members of the Julius Rosenberg expiring, namely Julius Rosenberg, Joel Barr, Alfred Saran, Vivian Glasmann, and others, worked personally for the Army signal corps
at the radar laboratory at Port Monmouth, and that associate and friend of these spies continued to work for the Army signal corps at radar laboratory until this committee came along and occasioned the incident.
Mr. Cohen, you've given a lot of names back there that I'm not personally familiar with in detail as to when they were or what they were.
But I'll say this, that in regards to the 35 cases, with which we've been concerned at Port Monmouth, as I know, they are not communist, any of them.
And then none of them have been sent to the amendment.
Well, Mr. Secretary, so I don't quite get the connection between the 1946, sure, that you are bringing in here, and particularly briefly now talking about.
Maybe, sir, I could try to show you that connection and agree with you that there is a connection.
First of all, there is your statement about the 57th, I agree with you.
One way to visit the amendment, we can attach much importance to that as a sign hold of communism and communist party membership.
But sir, is it not a known public fact in response to your statement that a great many people who have been found to be communist and communist spies, such as Al Jair his and William Remington, have not claimed the 57th amendment?
I think that's true.
This, though, the record will be clear. I don't want the record of sand, none of these individuals struck the fifth amendment. Some of them did.
Now, the Secretary shouldn't know that. For example, a Ruth Levine telecommunications handling secret radar work for 10 years.
Not at the Port Monmouth, I'm not at the amendment, I'm not at the amendment. Just a minute.
Now, if you attach a great deal of significance to the location and attaching significance to the radar work, for your information, if you don't know it, a Ruth Levine who had top secret clearance in telecommunications, which does a great deal of radar work for Port Monmouth, was submitted on December 13th, appeared before the Committee on the 16th, took the Fifth Amendment.
As to conspiracy to commit SB9, as to whether she was giving secret material to other individuals, so I don't think you want to make that misstatement of fact, Mr. Secretary.
Is she one of the 35 that's been suspended at Port Monmouth?
You asking me? Yes. Mr. Stevens, I have thought you were still the Secretary.
And I thought you knew who is suspended. You have refused to tell me. Forgive me the name, to those who suspended.
Mr. Chairman, may I call the Committee's attention to this fact as well as Senator McCartney's? Senator McCartney is now by that line of questioning going into the guilt or innocence or anistic real guilt.
How gross suspended at Port Monmouth has resolved allegedly of his investigation, I again remind the Committee that under all the rules of evidence, that is not a proper point of invariant.
It would lead us into the merits or the merits of each of the individual 35 cases. I again remind the Senator McCartney that there was an existence they bore to having jurisdiction to pass upon the question of whether or not,
if you as the evidence uncovered by the McCartney investigating Committee, anyone on all of those 35 were suspended. That matter became adjudicated.
The adjudication being of the evidence was sufficient to justify a suspension. That is the limit to which this committee should conduct its inquiry.
And I must again object to any testimony, relative to the degree of innocence of any of the individual cases.
Mr. Chairman, the Secretary of Defense has gone through the information that the Aged is thus that none of the individuals were communists, that none of them took the testimony.
I agree with Council that ordinarily we should not investigate these individual cases, but when the Secretary of Defense makes a sucker of the army, makes a statement which is so fairly false, no one goes to be false.
The only way I can correct this is to pick up a few of the individual cases, but show that he is not speaking the truth.
And I may say to Mr. Jenkins otherwise I was not a gun at the individual cases, and no one's ever done it.
I understand this even since you have stated that none of those 35 suspensions were the communists.
So far as I now know that's the fact.
Your statement and none of them played the bet the meant that I know.
I'm not asking about the meant, but your statement is that none of them was versus the conscious as far as you know.
Well that's right, of course the investigations are going on.
I'll take a little as you know Mr. Jenkins, we don't yet know the outcome on your list.
Mr. Chairman, one of the charges of the McCarthy Committee is...
Mr. Stevens and Mr. Adams felt the discreet of the Committee and the Bolivian's work.
And if the senator is not pursuing a line of imparations designed to show that there was in fact a communist or communist there,
it is my opinion that such a group is perfectly confident.
Council, let's go to the point of order to send a mic continue.